README.md, before:

# `pretty-quick`

[![Travis](https://img.shields.io/travis/azz/pretty-quick.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/azz/pretty-quick)
[![Prettier](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-prettier-ff69b4.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/prettier/prettier)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/pretty-quick.svg?style=flat-square)](https://npmjs.org/pretty-quick)
[![semantic-release](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20%20%F0%9F%93%A6%F0%9F%9A%80-semantic--release-e10079.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)

> Get Pretty Quick

Runs [Prettier](https://prettier.io) on your changed files.

![demo](./img/demo.gif)

Supported source control managers:

* Git
* Mercurial

## Install

With `yarn`:

```shellsession
yarn add --dev prettier pretty-quick
```

With `npm`:

```shellsession
npm install --save-dev prettier pretty-quick
```

## Usage

With `yarn`:

```shellsession
yarn pretty-quick
```

With [`npx`](https://npm.im/npx): (No install required)

```shellsession
npx pretty-quick
```

With `npm`:

1. Add `"pretty-quick": "pretty-quick"` to the scripts section of `package.json`.
2. `npm run pretty-quick`

## Pre-Commit Hook

You can run `pretty-quick` as a pre-commit hook using [`husky`](https://github.com/typicode/husky).

> For Mercurial have a look at [`husky-hg`](https://github.com/TobiasTimm/husky-hg)

```shellstream
yarn add --dev husky
```

In `package.json`'s `"scripts"` section, add:

```
"precommit": "pretty-quick --staged"
```

![demo](./img/precommit.gif)

## CLI Flags

### `--staged` (only git)

Pre-commit mode. Under this flag only staged files will be formatted, and they will be re-staged after formatting.

### `--branch`

When not in `staged` pre-commit mode, use this flag to compare changes with the specified branch. Defaults to `master` (git) / `default` (hg) branch.

<!-- Undocumented = Unsupported :D

### `--config`

Path to a `.prettierrc` file.

### `--since`

A SCM revision such as a git commit hash or ref.

For example `pretty-quick --since HEAD` will format only staged files.

-->

## Configuration and Ignore Files

`pretty-quick` will respect your [`.prettierrc`](https://prettier.io/docs/en/configuration), [`.prettierignore`](https://prettier.io/docs/en/ignore#ignoring-files), and [`.editorconfig`](http://editorconfig.org/) files, so there's no additional setup required. Configuration files will be found by searching up the file system. `.prettierignore` files are only found from the working directory that the command was executed from.

Commit message:

feat: safer handling of partially staged files (with fix) (#33)
* feat: safer handling of partially staged files (#29)

+ Partially staged files are not re-staged

+ Non-zero exit code upon reformatting partially staged file

+ Update README

* Fixes #30 handling of partially staged files

The git command checking for unstaged changes should not have been including a revision.

README.md, after:

# `pretty-quick`

[![Travis](https://img.shields.io/travis/azz/pretty-quick.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/azz/pretty-quick)
[![Prettier](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-prettier-ff69b4.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/prettier/prettier)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/pretty-quick.svg?style=flat-square)](https://npmjs.org/pretty-quick)
[![semantic-release](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20%20%F0%9F%93%A6%F0%9F%9A%80-semantic--release-e10079.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)

> Get Pretty Quick

Runs [Prettier](https://prettier.io) on your changed files.

![demo](./img/demo.gif)

Supported source control managers:

* Git
* Mercurial

## Install

With `yarn`:

```shellsession
yarn add --dev prettier pretty-quick
```

With `npm`:

```shellsession
npm install --save-dev prettier pretty-quick
```

## Usage

With `yarn`:

```shellsession
yarn pretty-quick
```

With [`npx`](https://npm.im/npx): (No install required)

```shellsession
npx pretty-quick
```

With `npm`:

1. Add `"pretty-quick": "pretty-quick"` to the scripts section of `package.json`.
2. `npm run pretty-quick`

## Pre-Commit Hook

You can run `pretty-quick` as a pre-commit hook using [`husky`](https://github.com/typicode/husky).

> For Mercurial have a look at [`husky-hg`](https://github.com/TobiasTimm/husky-hg)

```shellstream
yarn add --dev husky
```

In `package.json`'s `"scripts"` section, add:

```
"precommit": "pretty-quick --staged"
```

![demo](./img/precommit.gif)

## CLI Flags

### `--staged` (only git)

Pre-commit mode. Under this flag only staged files will be formatted, and they will be re-staged after formatting.

Partially staged files will not be re-staged after formatting and pretty-quick will exit with a non-zero exit code. The intent is to abort the git commit and allow the user to amend their selective staging to include formatting fixes.

### `--branch`

When not in `staged` pre-commit mode, use this flag to compare changes with the specified branch. Defaults to `master` (git) / `default` (hg) branch.

<!-- Undocumented = Unsupported :D

### `--config`

Path to a `.prettierrc` file.

### `--since`

A SCM revision such as a git commit hash or ref.

For example `pretty-quick --since HEAD` will format only staged files.

-->

## Configuration and Ignore Files

`pretty-quick` will respect your [`.prettierrc`](https://prettier.io/docs/en/configuration), [`.prettierignore`](https://prettier.io/docs/en/ignore#ignoring-files), and [`.editorconfig`](http://editorconfig.org/) files, so there's no additional setup required. Configuration files will be found by searching up the file system. `.prettierignore` files are only found from the working directory that the command was executed from.
